# EX05: Connecting to the Service

In the past several weeks, you have gained experience in Angular/TS and FastAPI, allowing you to create a functioning Todo List feature from backend to frontend! Now that you have the skillset, it's time to connect everything together by adding one new piece of functionality to your Todo List that you might have noticed was missing -- editing the text of Todo items!

In this assignment, you will need to draw on material from the past exercises and some content about services and SQLAlchemy from lecture to build your new feature. Unlike previous assignments, we will not be providing as much guidance in the write up or in the code itself, but don't worry! You have all the knowledge you need to determine how to implement this "update" feature and figure out where to add code.

## Setup

1. Make sure to follow the steps on the COMP 423 course website on how to accept this assignment via GitHub classroom and on how to clone this repository.
2. Open the repository in VSCode.
3. In the `workspace/docs` folder, you will find a file called `get_started.md`. Please follow the instructions in this file to set up your Docker environment. This typically includes adding a `.env` file to the `/backend` directory and running `pushd frontend; npm install; popd frontend`.
   - The most important step is to go into the existing `workspace/backend` folder and create the `.env` file. Otherwise, your Dev Container will not load. **Do this before trying to build your container!**
   - Note that it may take a while initially to build the Dev Container since this is your first time setting up the container, so don't be worried if it takes several minutes!
4. Once your container builds, be sure to also run `honcho start` to start up your application.

## General Exercise Information

### Commit Expectations

We expect you to commit after completing "significant" pieces of functionality, as well as write meaningful messages for each commit. You will be expected to determine where and what to commit yourself this time!

### GPT/AI Usage Policy

We highly discourage you from using ChatGPT or other AI assistants when working on this assignment. While it is okay to use AI for conceptual questions, we recommend that you practice your ability to find and understand documentation on your own - ChatGPT is sometimes inaccurate, and it often doesn't have knowledge of the design patterns we prefer you to use.

Aside from conceptual help, however, you should _not_ use code sourced from ChatGPT/AI, as this is an Academic Honor Violation. _All code written must be your original work._

## Step 1: Review the Code

Although these structure and purpose of all the Todo-related files should still be fairly fresh in your mind, it's always good to take a step back and review what files you will be working with before adding new functionality to a feature! Further, the starter code for this assignment now contains a solution to EX04, so be sure to check out the implementation of the frontend and backend if there were any parts of EX04 that you didn't fully complete or implemented differently.

## Step 2: ~~Draw the Rest of the Owl~~ Implement Functionality to Update the Todo Title

Currently, our "update" functionality only updates the `completed` status of a Todo item. Your job is to create a new update method that allows the user to update the `title` field of a Todo item.

In order to complete this exercise, you will need to do the following:

- Add a new update method to the backend Todo service file.
- Add a new put method to the backend Todo API file.
- Connect your API to the frontend Todo service.
- Update the Todo Component TS and HTML files to allow the user to update any Todo item.
- Style any new HTML elements that you add.

### Implementation Expectations

While you generally have free reign over how you would like to implement this feature, please follow the expectations below:

- [ ] Each Todo item should be editable _inline_ (i.e., the text for a Todo should be replaced by an editor within the list item).
- [ ] Only one Todo should be in "edit mode" at a time.
- [ ] When "edit mode" is activated for a Todo, the editor should already contain the _existing text_ of the Todo item the user is editing. It should not be blank!
- [ ] When in "edit mode," the Todo list item should have a clear way to "submit" the edits.
- [ ] Submitting edits should clear the text out of the editor.
- [ ] Users should be able to deactivate/cancel edit mode.
- [ ] New elements should be styled to align with the existing Todo list styling, and new styling should makes sense from a user experience (UX) standpoint.

## Final Steps: View Your Work!

Congratulations! You just connected your frontend project from ex02 to the XL's backend. While you should have also been testing each method/button as you created them, this is also a good opportunity to check for any bugs. It's always a good idea to manually test your feature once you complete it to ensure everything works.

## Submission

Once your code is fully tested, push your code up to your Github repository using `git push`. Then, go to Gradescope and complete the exercise submission there!

_Note:_ Be sure to record your demo video before you close out your container to avoid having to rebuild! :)
